feat(gatsby): allow schema customization (#11480)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/blog/2019-03-18-releasing-new-schema-customization/index.md

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.sourceNodes = ({ actions }) => {
  const { createTypes } = actions
  const typeDefs = `
    type AuthorJson implements Node {
      name: String
      birthday: Date
    }
  `
  createTypes(typeDefs)
}
```

After adding this to your [gatsby-node](/docs/gatsby-project-structure/#files) file, the `AuthorJson` type will always have fields name and birthday, regardless of the automatically inferred data shape. The rest of the fields will still be inferred normally, allowing you to enjoy the default benefits of Gatsby schema inference.

## `createResolvers`

`createResolvers` allows doing additional customization after all schema processing has been finished. Thus it can be used to add fields to any types, including root types like `Query` and types from third party schemas.

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
createResolvers({
  Query: {
    allAuthorFullNames: {
      type: `[String!]!`,
      resolve(source, args, context, info) {
        const authors = context.nodeModel.getAllNodes({
          type: `AuthorJson`,
        })
        return authors.map(author => author.name)
      },
    },
  },
})
```

## The Type Builder API

> While `createTypes` accepts `graphql-js` types along with a [Schema Definition Language (SDL)](https://www.prisma.io/blog/graphql-sdl-schema-definition-language-6755bcb9ce51) string, we've also added an option to use `graphql-js` types so that users could create types with resolvers. However, `graphql-js` is somewhat verbose and it can be hard to refer to types that don't yet exist or don't exist in a current scope. Therefore, we decided to add another programmatic API that combines brevity of SDL with flexibility of `graphql-js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While `createTypes` accepts GraphQL types as a [Schema Definition Language (SDL)](https://graphql.org/learn/schema/) string, we've also added an option to use `graphql-js` types so that users could create types with resolvers. However, `graphql-js` is somewhat verbose and it can be hard to refer to types that don't yet exist or don't exist in a current scope. Therefore, we decided to add another programmatic API that combines brevity of SDL with flexibility of `graphql-js`.
```

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.sourceNodes = ({ actions, schema }) => {
  const { createTypes } = actions
  createTypes([
    schema.buildObjectType({
      name: `CommentJson`,
      fields: {
        text: `String!`,
        blog: {
          type: `BlogJson`,
          resolve(parent, args, context) {
            return context.nodeModel.getNodeById({
              id: parent.author,
              type: `BlogJson`,
            })
          },
        },
        author: {
          type: `AuthorJson`,
          resolve(parent, args, context) {
            return context.nodeModel.getNodeById({
              id: parent.author,
              type: `AuthorJson`,
            })
          },
        },
      },
      interfaces: [`Node`],
    }),
  ])
}
```

# Potential for Breaking Changes

We have tried to avoid any breaking changes in this refactor of the underlying GraphQL layer, testing it in notable Gatsby sites and ensuring all tests were passing. However, there are areas where we needed to introduce more stable naming, and in these instances it _could_ be possible that a breaking change was introduced if you were relying on this undocumented API.

> Specifically, before this refactor Gatsby type names weren't stable. They could have names like `frontmatter_2` because of some quirks in our schema generation. Now the types names are **stable** and **defined**. For a `Node`, it's always a Pascal Camel Cased name of the `Node` type (for example, `AllMarkdownRemark`). For an inline object, it's the name of the node plus the name of the field, again Pascal Camel Cased. So `frontmatter_2` would be available as `MarkdownRemarkFrontmatter` now. If you've had fragments referring to some types by their old names, you may need to change it to new names, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifically, before this refactor Gatsby type names weren't stable. They could have names like `frontmatter_2` because of some quirks in our schema generation. Now the types names are **stable** and **defined**. For a `Node`, it's always a Pascal Camel Cased name of the `Node` type (for example, `MarkdownRemark`). For an inline object, it's the name of the node plus the name of the field, again Pascal Camel Cased. So `frontmatter_2` would be available as `MarkdownRemarkFrontmatter` now. If you've had fragments referring to some types by their old names, you may need to change it to new names, e.g.:
```
